---
title: "Dynamic Graphs Generators Analysis: An Illustrative Case Study"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-1
venue: "The 2nd Symposium on Algorithmic Foundations of Dynamic Networks"
date: 2023-06-01
location: "Pisa, Italy"
---

In this work, we investigate the analysis of generators for dynamic graphs, which are defined as
graphs whose topology changes over time. We focus on generated graphs whose orders are neither
growing nor constant along time. We introduce a novel concept, called "sustainability," to qualify the
long-term evolution of dynamic graphs. A dynamic graph is considered sustainable if its evolution
does not result in a static, empty, or periodic graph. To measure the dynamics of the sets of
vertices and edges, we propose a metric, named "Nervousness," which is derived from the Jaccard
distance. As an illustration of how the analysis can be conducted, we design a parametrized generator,
named D3G3 (Degree-Driven Dynamic Geometric Graphs Generator), that generates dynamic graph
instances from an initial geometric graph. The evolution of these instances is driven by two rules that
operate on the vertices based on their degree. By varying the parameters of the generator, different
properties of the dynamic graphs can be produced. Our results show that in order to ascertain the
sustainability of the generated dynamic graphs, it is necessary to study both the evolution of the
order and the Nervousness for a given set of parameters.
